---
title: Release 1.1 (2020-7-19)
sidebar_position: 79
---

## MR3
  - Support DAG scheduling schemes (specified by `mr3.dag.queue.scheme`).
  - Optimize DAGAppMaster by freeing memory for messages to Tasks when fault tolerance is disabled (with `mr3.am.task.max.failed.attempts` set to 1).
  - Fix a minor memory leak in DaemonTask (which also prevents MR3 from running more than 2^30 DAGs when using the shuffle handler).
  - Improve the chance of assigning TaskAttempts to ContainerWorkers that match location hints.
  - TaskScheduler can use location hints produced by `ONE_TO_ONE` edges.
  - TaskScheduler can use location hints from HDFS when assigning TaskAttempts to ContainerWorker Pods on Kubernetes (with `mr3.convert.container.address.host.name`).
  - Introduce `mr3.k8s.pod.cpu.cores.max.multiplier` to specify the multiplier for the limit of CPU cores.
  - Introduce `mr3.k8s.pod.memory.max.multiplier` to specify the multiplier for the limit of memory.
  - Introduce `mr3.k8s.pod.worker.security.context.sysctls` to configure kernel parameters of ContainerWorker Pods using init containers.
  - Support speculative execution of TaskAttempts (with `mr3.am.task.concurrent.run.threshold.percent`).
  - A ContainerWorker can run multiple shuffle handlers each with a different port. The configuration key `mr3.use.daemon.shufflehandler` now specifies the number of shuffle handlers in each ContainerWorker.
  - With speculative execution and the use of multiple shuffle handlers in a single ContainerWorker, fetch delays rarely occur.
  - A ContainerWorker Pod can run shuffle handlers in a separate container (with `mr3.k8s.shuffle.process.ports`).
  - On Kubernetes, DAGAppMaster uses ReplicationController instead of Pod, thus making recovery much faster.
  - On Kubernetes, ConfigMaps `mr3conf-configmap-master` and `mr3conf-configmap-worker` survive MR3, so the user should delete them manually.
  - Java 8u251/8u252 can be used on Kubernetes 1.17 and later.

## Hive on MR3
  - CrossProductHandler asks MR3 DAGAppMaster to set `TEZ_CARTESIAN_PRODUCT_MAX_PARALLELISM` (Cf. HIVE-16690, Hive 3/4).
  - Hive 4 on MR3 is stable (currently using 4.0.0-SNAPSHOT).
  - No longer support Hive 1.
  - Ranger uses a local directory (emptyDir volume) for logging.
  - The open file limit for Solr (in Ranger) is not limited to 1024.
  - HiveServer2 and DAGAppMaster create readiness and liveness probes.

