---
title: Release 2.0 (2025-4-??)
sidebar_position: 60
---

## MR3

### Task scheduling

* Delay scheduling has been removed,
and the configuration key `mr3.taskattempt.queue.scheme.use.delay` is no longer used.
* The default value of `mr3.vertex.priority.scheme` is `postorder`.
* The default value of `mr3.taskattempt.queue.scheme` is `indexed`. 
Moreover TaskScheduler using `indexed` scheme implements an optimization that
minimizes the impact of stragglers on downstream execution.
It uses a new configuration key `mr3.vertex.high.task.priority.fraction`.
See [DAG/Task Scheduling](../features/mr3/dag-scheduling) for details.
* The default value of `tez.runtime.report.partition.stats` in `tez-site.xml` is `precise`
which uses kilobytes (instead of megabytes) for measuring the size of input data to Tasks.
With this finer granularity,
the new configuration key `mr3.vertex.high.task.priority.fraction` becomes more effective.
* TaskScheduler provides a new mode `strict` which is particularly useful
for Hive on MR3 with LLAP I/O enabled.
See [DAG/Task Scheduling](../features/mr3/dag-scheduling) for details.

### Shuffling

* By default, pipelined shuffling is disabled and `ONE_TO_ONE` edges can be created.
  - `tez.runtime.pipelined-shuffle.enabled` is set to false.
  - `tez.runtime.enable.final-merge.in.output` is set to true.
* By default, memory-to-memory merging is enabled.
  - `tez.runtime.shuffle.memory-to-memory.enable` is set to true.
  - A new configuration key `tez.runtime.optimize.local.fetch.ordered` is set to false.
    It specifies whether fetching ordered data stored on local disks is directly read.

### Backpressure handling and speculative fetching

MR3 implements backpressure handling and speculative fetching.
It introduces the following configuration keys in `tez-site.xml`.
  * `tez.runtime.shuffle.speculative.fetch.wait.millis`
  * `tez.runtime.shuffle.stuck.fetcher.threshold.millis`
  * `tez.runtime.shuffle.stuck.fetcher.release.millis`

See [Backpressure handling](../features/mr3/backpressure) for details.

### Miscellaneous

* A new configuration key `tez.shuffle.skip.verify.request` specifies
whether or not MR3 shuffle handlers skips checking the validity of shuffle requests.
The default value is false, i.e., the validity of shuffle requests is checked.

## Hive on MR3

* LLAP I/O cache can be purged with the command `llap cache -purge` in Beeline.
* LLAP I/O supports proactive purging.
* Ranger 2.6.0 is supported.
* Hive on MR3 uses ORC 2.0.3.
  For vectorized reading from Amazon S3,
  new configurations keys have been added to `core-site.xml` such as:
  - `fs.s3a.vectored.read.min.seek.size`
  - `fs.s3a.vectored.read.max.merged.size`


